Ok Commander, you may be new, but I know you have what it takes to take down the enemy forces. You have been assigned 5 ships of varying sizes, each one equipped with ballistic missiles. The enemy is currently unaware of your location, but we also have no information on the enemy’s location. Ulysses S. Grant once stated that “War… War never changes”. Unfortunately, the battlefield is different than before. I have given you updated equipment to take out the adversaries. Here’s how to use them to their fullest potential:
 
Actions: First things first, war is not cheap. I can only assign you enough funding for a certain number of actions per turn. Due to this, each turn needs to be utilized wisely and effectively. I will be lobbying for more funding over time, but until then, you have what you are given. You will be able to locate the number of actions you have been allocated at the bottom of your map. There are a total of 3 moves which you will command your fleet to follow. Here are the moves and the action costs of each:
 
Fire: To fire at the enemy fleet, simply click on the location on the enemy playing field. Each fire costs a total of 1 action point. When the timer reaches 0 or the turn is ended prematurely, the result of the fires will be notified to you via the enemy map. Unlike wars of before, the missiles have been upgraded. If a missile misses a ship by only a single space, both you and the enemy will be notified by a yellow diamond that there is a ship within extremely close proximity. Each ship has been given enough missiles to handle any situation. As long as one ship is alive, the war is not over.
 
Movement: To command a ship in your fleet to move, simply drag and drop the ship across your own map. Each space moved by a ship will cost 1 action point. Both our missiles and the enemy missiles have improved greatly, creating impassible terrain when a location has been fired at. Therefore, it is necessary that you command your fleet to move around terrain which has already been destroyed. If one of your ships has been hit, it will definitely be damaged to the point where it cannot move again. Do not let this happen at all costs.
 
Rotations: To rotate a ship in your fleet, simply click on the ship and use the arrow keys to rotate the ship by 90 degrees. Due to the varying sizes of the ships in your fleet, each ship will have a different cost to rotate. Each space that a ship takes up will be used in the calculation of a rotation. For example: the 5 space aircraft carrier you have been assigned will require 5 actions to rotate, but the 2 space patrol boat will only require 2 actions to rotate. If a ship has been damaged in any form, it will not be able to rotate.
 
The war will only end when all of the enemy’s fleet has been demolished. It is up to you to lead our military to victory. I fully believe in you, Commander, and I wish you and your fleet the best of luck.